---
layout: page
title: CV
permalink: /cv/
---

<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291228' />Main Employment&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291229' />
<li class="itemize_item">Professor of Economics - Department of Economics, University of Oslo. 2011-present</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Professeur - École Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Administration Économique (ENSAE), Paris. 2008-2011. </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Senior Researcher/Associate Professor - University of Amsterdam, Department of Economics. 2005-2008.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Researcher/Assistant Professor - University of Amsterdam, Department of Economics. 1997-2004.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Consultant (full-time) - OECD, Directorate for Education, Labour and Social Affairs. 1995-1997.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291234' />Editorial Responsibilities&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291235' /><li class="itemize_item"><em>Labour Economics</em>, Editor EALE Conference Issue 2017</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><em>Annals of Economics and Statistics</em>, Associate Editor. 2010-Present.</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><em>Economics of Education Review</em>, Associate Editor. 2007-2010.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291238' />Affiliations&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291239' /><li class="itemize_item">Researcher II - Research Department Statistics Norway. 2011-present</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research Affiliate - CEPR, London. 2007-Present. </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research Fellow - IZA, Bonn. 2006-Present.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research Associate - CREST, Paris. 2003-2008.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research Fellow - Tinbergen Institute, Amsterdam. 2002-2008</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291244' />Education&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291245' /><li class="itemize_item">University of Amsterdam, Ph.D. Economics, 2001 (Cum Laude).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">University of Amsterdam, M.A. Econometrics, 1994.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291247' />Refereed Publications&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291248' /><li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=booijLeuvenOosterbeek2014">Ability peer effects in university</a>, <em>Review of Economic Studie</em>s. Forthcoming. (with Adam S. Booij and Hessel Oosterbeek)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://http://www.sv.uio.no/econ/english/research/memorandum/2014/memo052014.html">Education and cancer risk</a>, <em>Labour Economics.</em> Forthcoming.<em> </em>(with Erik Plug and M. Rønning)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=dehaanLeuvenOosterbeek2010">School supply and student achievement</a>, <em>Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization</em>. Forthcoming. (with M. De Haan and H. Oosterbeek).</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=bonhommeJolivetLeuven2011">Job Characteristics and Labor Turnover: Assessing the Role of Preferences and Opportunities</a><em> Economic Journal, </em>Forthcoming<em>.</em> (with G. Jolivet and S. Bonhomme)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=kirkeboenleuvenmogstad2014">Field of study, selectivity and earnings</a>, <em>Quarterly Journal of Economics 131. </em>(2016). 1057-1111<em>.</em> (with L. Kirkebøen and M. Mogstad). [Editor’s Choice and Lead Article].</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=ketelLeuvenOosterbeekVanderKlaauw">The returns to medical school in a regulated labor market: Evidence from admission lotteries</a>, <em>American Economic Journal: Applied Economics</em> <em>8</em>(2). (2016). 225--254. (with Nadine Ketel and Hessel Oosterbeek and Bas Van der Klaauw)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=leuvenRoenning2010">Classroom grade composition and pupil achievement</a> <em>Economic Journal 126(593). </em>(2016). 1164-1192<em>.</em> (with M. Rønning)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=bhullerHavnesLeuvenMogstad2011">Broadband Internet: An Information Superhighway to Sex Crime?</a> <em>Review of Economic Studies 80</em> (4). (2013). 1237-1266. (with M. Bhuller, T. Havnes and M. Mogstad)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=LeuvenOosterbeekWolf2007">The effect of health education on health outcomes</a> <em>Journal of Health Economics 32</em>. 698-707. (with H. Oosterbeek and I. de Wolf)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The role of information in the take-up of student loans. <i>Economics of Education Review 31</i>(1). (2012). 33-44. (with A. Booij and H. Oosterbeek)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Incentives versus sorting in tournaments: Evidence from a field experiment. <em>Journal of Labor Economics 29(3). </em>(2011). 637-658. (with H. Oosterbeek, J. Sonnemans and B. van der Klaauw)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Educational Mismatch in the Labor Market. In: <em>The Handbook of the Economics of Education Vol 4</em>. Elsevier. Eds.: R. Hanushek, S. Machin, L. Woessmann. (2011). (with Hessel Oosterbeek)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The effect of financial rewards on students' achievement: Evidence from a randomized experiment. <i>Journal of the European Economic Association 8</i>(6). (2010). 1243-12-65. (with H. Oosterbeek and B. van der Klaauw)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Expanding schooling opportunities for 4-year-olds. <i>Economics of Education Review 29<em>. (2010). 319-328. </em></i>(with M. Lindahl, H. Oosterbeek and D. Webbink)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Quasi-experimental estimates of the effect of class size on achievement in Norway. <i>Scandinavian Journal of Economics</i><em> </em>(Special issue 'Economics of Education and Human-Capital Accumulation', A. Krueger and A. Björklund, eds.). (2008). (with H. Oosterbeek and M. Rønning).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">An alternative approach to estimate the wage returns to work-related training. <i>Journal of Applied Econometrics 23.</i> (2008). 423-434. (with H. Oosterbeek).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The effect of extra funding for disadvantaged students on achievement. <i>Review of Economics and Statistics 89<em>(4)</em></i>. (2007). 721-736. (with M. Lindahl, H. Oosterbeek and D. Webbink). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Workplace Training in Europe. In: G. Brunello and P. Garibaldi and E. Wasmer, eds. <i>Education and Training in Europe</i>. Oxford University Press (2007). Chapter 8-13. (with A. Bassanini and A.L. Booth and G. Brunello and M. De Paola). (IZA Top 10 most downloaded papers)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The Effectiveness of Human Capital Policies for Disadvantaged Groups in the Netherlands. In: P. Peterson and L. Woessmann, eds. <i>Schools and the Equal Opportunity Problem</i>. MIT Press (2007). (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Returns to Training. In: J. Hartog and H. Maassen van den Brink, eds. <i>Human Capital. Moving the Frontier.</i> Cambridge University Press. (2007).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Worker reciprocity and employer investment in training. <i>Economica 72</i>. (2005). 137-149. (with H. Oosterbeek, R. Sloof and C. van Klaveren).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The economics of training: A survey of the literature. <i>Journal of Economic Surveys 19</i>(1). (2005). 91-111. Reprinted in: Recent Developments in the Economics of Training. International Library of Critical Writings in Economics, editor: F. Green. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2007.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Evaluating the effect of tax deductions on training. <i>Journal of Labor Economics 22</i>(1). (2004). 461-488. (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Explaining international differences in male wage inequality by differences in demand and supply of skill. <i>Economic Journal 144</i>. (2004). 478-498. (with H. Oosterbeek and H. van Ophem). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">An experimental comparison of investment behavior under alternative breach remedies: The case of no-renegotiation. <i>RAND Journal of Economics 34</i>(2). (2003). 205-222. (with R. Sloof, H. Oosterbeek, and J. Sonnemans). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Wages and the Bargaining Regime in a Corporatist Setting: The Netherlands. <i>European Journal of Political Economy 18</i>. (2002). 317-331. (with J. Hartog and C.N. Teulings). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Firm-specific human capital as a shared investment: Comment. <i>American Economic Review, 91</i>. (2001). 342-347. (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Demand and supply of work-related training; evidence from four countries. <i>Research in Labor Economics 18</i>. (1999). 303-330. (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Gender differences in work-related adult education and training. In: P. Bélanger and A. Tuijnman, eds. <em>New Patterns of Adult Learning: A Six- Country Comparative Study</em>. Pergamon Press. (1997).</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291277' />Other Publications <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291278' /><li class="itemize_item">Comments on &ldquo;Developments in economics of education research&rdquo;. <em>Labour Economics 30</em>. (2014). 20–21.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Effektevaluering av intensivopplæringen i Overgangsprosjektet, Ny GIV. Statistisk Sentralbyrå. Rapport 54/2013. (2013). (with Gaute Eielsen, Lars Johannessen Kirkebøen, Marte Rønning og Oddbjørn Raaum)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Financiële prikkels voor studenten. <i>Economisch Statistische Berichten</i> 4430. (2004), 156-157 (with B. van der Klaauw and H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Onderwijssubsidie niet kosteneffectief. <i>Economisch Statistische Berichten</i> 4406. (2003), 276-277 (with M. Lindahl, H. Oosterbeek and H.D. Webbink). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Determinanten van deelname aan scholing van werkenden: met speciale aandacht voor de effecten van fiscale stimulering: Deel 2. In: <i>Scholing van werkenden</i>. (2001). Den Haag: Ministerie van Economische Zaken (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Veranderingen in de kwaliteit van nieuwe banen in Nederland, 1986-1996. In: <i>Jaarboek 1997/1998 van het Max Goote Kenniscentrum</i>. (1999). Den Haag: Elsevier. (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Rendement onderwijs stijgt. <i>Economisch Statistische Berichten</i> 23 Juni. (2000). (with H. Oosterbeek). </li>
<li class="itemize_item">Lifelong Learning: Who Pays? <i>The OECD Observer</i>, No. 199. (1996). OECD, Paris, France. (with A. Tuijnman and others). </li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291286' />Working Papers <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291287' /><li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=dehaanLeuven2016">Head Start and the distribution of long term education and labor market outcomes</a> (with Monique De Haan)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://http://www.sv.uio.no/econ/english/research/memorandum/2014/memo062014.html">The relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors to cancer risk and cancer mortality in Norway</a> (with Erik Plug and M. Rønning)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=leuvenOosterbeek2006">The responsiveness of training participation to tax deductibility</a> (with H. Oosterbeek)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://www.economists.nl/files/20100908-toernooi_model.pdf">Splitting tournaments</a> (with Hessel Oosterbeek and Bas van der Klaauw)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Starting school: The earlier the better? An evaluation of the French early schooling policy (with E. Maurin)</li>
<li class="itemize_item"><a href="http://leuven.economists.nl/abstract.php?citekey=leuven2004">Sick of work? The effect of work time reduction on the sickness absenteeism of teachers</a></li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291293' />Software <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291294' /><li class="itemize_item">PSMATCH2: 'Stata module to perform full Mahalanobis and propensity score matching, common support graphing, and covariate imbalance testing.' (with B. Sianesi)</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291295' />Teaching <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291296' /><li class="itemize_item">Applied Econometrics (Graduate), 2014-16. University of Oslo.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Labour Economics (Undergraduate), 2013-2016. University of Oslo.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Applied Econometrics (Undergraduate), 2012/14. University of Oslo.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Microeconometrics (Graduate), 2011/12. University of Oslo.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Econometrics (Master), 2010/11, 2009/10. ENSAE, Paris.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Economics of Education (Graduate), 2010/11, 2009/10. ENSAE, Paris.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Applied Econometrics (Graduate), 2007. Tinbergen Institute, Amsterdam.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Labour Economics (Graduate), 2005-2006. Tinbergen Institute, Amsterdam.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Applied Economics 2005-2008. University of Amsterdam.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Intermediate Micro Economics, 2001-2002. University of Amsterdam.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Micro Economics, 1998-2000. University of Amsterdam.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291307' />Member Thesis Committee <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291308' /><li class="itemize_item">2016. Hanna Virtanen, Essays on post-compulsory educational attainment in Finland, Aalto University, Helsinki.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2011. Laurent Leqeuin, Essais d'evaluation de politique publique dans les champs de l'education, la sante et des politiques d'emploi, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Paris.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2011. Francesco Avvisati, Essais en Economie de l'Education, École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2007. Sandra Maximiano, Essays in Organizational Economics, University of Amsterdam</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2008. Monique De Haan, Family Background and Children’s Schooling Outcomes, University of Amsterdam.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291313' />PhD Students <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291314' /><li class="itemize_item">2019 (expected). Espen Dahl – Dynamics of poverty.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2019 (expected). Andreas Myhre –</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2017 (expected). Erlend Eide Bø – Four essays on public and housing economics</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2017 (expected). Martin Eckhoff Andresen.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2017 (expected). Ingrid Huitfeldt.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2017. Ragnhild Schreiner – Social Insurance Programs, Earnings and Labor Force Participation. 2nd supervisor.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2014. Anna Aasen Godøy – Essays on unemployment, social insurance and labor market outcomes. 2nd supervisor.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2014. Kari Vea Salvanes – Economic Conditions and Family Policy: Child and Family Outcomes. 2nd supervisor.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291322' />Organizational Activities <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291323' /><li class="itemize_item">Member executive committee EALE, 2013–15</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Scientific Program Committee EALE 2013</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research Seminar 2012-2016, University of Oslo.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Micro Seminar Series 2010/2011, CREST, Paris.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Labour Seminar Series 2002/2003, Tinbergen Institute, Amsterdam.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Organizer of the third conference of the EU Marie Curie Research and Training Network on the Economics of Education and Education Policy in Europe. Paris, October 13-14, 2006. </li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291329' />Participation International Networks <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291330' /><li class="itemize_item">Expert in the European Network on the Economics of Education (ENEE) financed by the European Commission. Joint with other European Institutes (led by CESifo, 2004-).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Research and Training Network (RTN) &ldquo;Economics of Education and Educational Policy in Europe&rdquo;. Joint with 6 European research centers (led by CEPR, 2004-2008).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Targeted Socio-Economic Research (TSER) project 'Education and Training, New job skill needs and the low-skilled' financed by the European Commission. 1996-2000.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Scientific program committee 23rd EALE Conference, September 22-24, 2011.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Executive Committee Member EALE. 2012-</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291335' />Grants <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291336' /><li class="itemize_item">2015-2017. Inside the Black Box of Skill Formation: Determinants and Outcomes of Field of Study Choices. FINNUT program Project no. 237840. 6,000,000 NOK (with Marte Rønning, Magne Mogstad)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2012-2016. Ny GIV - effektevaluering, Ministry of Education. 7,000,000 NOK. (with Lars Kirkebøen, Marte Rønning, Oddbjørn Raaum).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2009-2011. Socio-economic determinants of cancer: Twin, adoptee and family based evidence from the Cancer Registry of Norway. The Research Council of Norway. 3,300,000 NOK. (with Erik Plug and Marte Rønning).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">2005-2007. Individual research grant (VENI) from the Dutch Research Council (NWO). 170,000 Euros.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291340' />Commissioned Research &amp; Reports&nbsp; <hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291341' /><li class="itemize_item">Effect evaluation of – First report. (in Norwegian) Effektevaluering av intensivopplæringen i Overgangsprosjektet, Ny GIV – Første delrapport. Statistics Norway reports 54/2013. (with Gaute Eielsen, Lars Johannessen Kirkebøen, Marte Rønning and Oddbjørn Raaum)</li>
<li class="itemize_item">A review of the wage returns to private sector training. Report prepared for the OECD and the European Commission. Bruxelles, Dec. 2004.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Impact study of schooling deductions in the income tax. Ministry of Finance. The Hague, 2004.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Evaluation of company tax deductions of training cost. Ministry of Economic Affairs. July 2001.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291345' />Refereeing&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291346' /><li class="itemize_item">Labour Economics, Economics of Education Review, Computational Economics, International Journal of Manpower, Journal of Labor Economics, Economic Journal, European Economic Review, British Journal of Industrial Relations, Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Population Economics, Scandinavian Journal of Economics, Journal of Econometrics, Review of Economic Studies, Journal of the European Economic Association, The Annals of Economics and Statistics, Oxford Economic Papers, Review of Economics and Statistics, Management Science, Econometrica, Journal of Public Economics, American Economic Review, Industrial and Labor Relations Review, Journal of Economic Inequality, Journal of Applied Econometrics.</li>
</ul>
<h3 class="subsection_"><a id='magicparlabel-291347' />Languages&nbsp;<hr />

</h3>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-291348' /><li class="itemize_item">Dutch - Mother tongue.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">English - Fluent both spoken and written.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">French - Fluent spoken, written good.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">German - Good spoken, written basic.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Norwegian - Conversational.</li>
</ul>
